index.md, before:

---
# You don't need to edit this file, it's empty on purpose.
# Edit theme's home layout instead if you wanna make some changes
# See: https://jekyllrb.com/docs/themes/#overriding-theme-defaults
layout: default
title: Konnected
---

**Konnected Security** is a simple and inexpensive way to connect wired alarm system door/window sensors and motion
 sensors to [SmartThings](https://www.smartthings.com) for use with [Smart Home Monitor](https://support.smartthings.com/hc/en-us/articles/205380154-Smart-Home-Monitor)
 or any other SmartThings apps. Use Konnected Alarm Panel to convert your old wired alarm system into a SmartThings
 smart alarm. Or, if you're building/renovating a home, save money on wireless sensors and alarm system installation by 
 pre-wiring your home with sensors and connecting them to SmartThings with Konnected Alarm Panel.
 
 Konnected devices are based on open-source hardware and software. We [sell DIY kits](https://store.konnected.io) pre-loaded
  with Konnected software. Just follow the wiring instructions on this website. You can also build your own Konnected alarm panel
  with easily available components and the [Konnected Security open-source firmware](https://github.com/konnected-io/konnected-security).
  See our [buying guide](/security-alarm-system/buying-guide) for complete information on what to buy.  

### [Konnected Security documentation](/security-alarm-system)

Commit message:

add link to facebook page

index.md, after:

---
# You don't need to edit this file, it's empty on purpose.
# Edit theme's home layout instead if you wanna make some changes
# See: https://jekyllrb.com/docs/themes/#overriding-theme-defaults
layout: default
title: Konnected
--- 

## [How to Convert Your Wired Alarm System into a SmartThings Smart Home Security System with Konnected's DIY Kits](/security-alarm-system)
Konnected Security is a DIY project that enables you to convert your wired alarm system into a SmartThings smart home
security system. Replace your traditional alarm system panel with Konnected reusing the existing wired sensors in your
home.

<br/>
### Find us on Facebook

Share your Konnected setup photos, installation tips, and integrations with other Konnected users in our new [Konnected
Users Group on Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/groups/476247262742640/?source_id=1968428086770654) and like our page
below!

<div class="fb-page" data-href="https://www.facebook.com/konnected-io/" data-tabs="timeline,reviews,groups" data-width="500" data-small-header="false" data-adapt-container-width="true" data-hide-cover="false" data-show-facepile="true"><blockquote cite="https://www.facebook.com/konnected-io/" class="fb-xfbml-parse-ignore"><a href="https://www.facebook.com/konnected-io/">konnected.io</a></blockquote></div>
