security-alarm-system/index.md, before:

---
layout: default
title: Konnected Security alarm system install guide
breadcrumb: Konnected Security alarm system install guide
---

# Konnected Security Install Guide

![](/assets/images/konnected-alarm-panel.jpg){:width="70%"}

## Installation

1. [Getting Started](/security-alarm-system/installation/getting-started)
1. [Connect to WiFi](/security-alarm-system/installation/connect-wifi)
1. [Enable SmartThings GitHub Integration](/security-alarm-system/installation/github-integration)
1. [Install the SmartApp](/security-alarm-system/installation/smartapp)
1. [Install Device Handlers](/security-alarm-system/installation/device-handlers)
1. [Mounting & Positioning](/security-alarm-system/installation/mounting-positioning)

## Setup

1. [Add the Konnected Device to SmartThings](/security-alarm-system/setup/discovery)
1. [Assign Device Pins to Things](/security-alarm-system/setup/assign-pins)
1. [Set up Smart Home Monitor](/security-alarm-system/setup/smart-home-monitor)

## Wiring

1. [Connecting Jumper Wires to In-wall Wiring](/security-alarm-system/wiring/connecting-jumpers)
1. [Door & Window Sensors](/security-alarm-system/wiring/contact-sensors)
1. [Motion Sensors](/security-alarm-system/wiring/motion-sensors)
1. [Siren, Strobe or Alarm](/security-alarm-system/wiring/siren)
1. [Smoke Detectors](/security-alarm-system/wiring/smoke-detectors)
1. [Power](/security-alarm-system/wiring/power)

## Troubleshooting

1. [Viewing Debug Output from the Device](/security-alarm-system/troubleshooting/serial-debugging)

## Usage, Addons and Other Information

1. [DIY Shopping & Buying Guide](/security-alarm-system/buying-guide)
1. [Blue LED status indicator](/security-alarm-system/setup/device-modes)

Commit message:

start FAQ section; add FAQ about keeping existing alarm

security-alarm-system/index.md, after:

---
layout: default
title: Konnected Security alarm system install guide
breadcrumb: Konnected Security alarm system install guide
---

# Konnected Security Install Guide

![](/assets/images/konnected-alarm-panel.jpg){:width="70%"}

## Frequently Asked Questions

1. [Can I use Konnected to integrate my alarm system with SmartThings _and_ still keep my existing alarm panel?](/security-alarm-system/faq/konnected-with-existing-alarm)

## Installation

1. [Getting Started](/security-alarm-system/installation/getting-started)
1. [Connect to WiFi](/security-alarm-system/installation/connect-wifi)
1. [Enable SmartThings GitHub Integration](/security-alarm-system/installation/github-integration)
1. [Install the SmartApp](/security-alarm-system/installation/smartapp)
1. [Install Device Handlers](/security-alarm-system/installation/device-handlers)
1. [Mounting & Positioning](/security-alarm-system/installation/mounting-positioning)

## Setup

1. [Add the Konnected Device to SmartThings](/security-alarm-system/setup/discovery)
1. [Assign Device Pins to Things](/security-alarm-system/setup/assign-pins)
1. [Set up Smart Home Monitor](/security-alarm-system/setup/smart-home-monitor)

## Wiring

1. [Connecting Jumper Wires to In-wall Wiring](/security-alarm-system/wiring/connecting-jumpers)
1. [Door & Window Sensors](/security-alarm-system/wiring/contact-sensors)
1. [Motion Sensors](/security-alarm-system/wiring/motion-sensors)
1. [Siren, Strobe or Alarm](/security-alarm-system/wiring/siren)
1. [Smoke Detectors](/security-alarm-system/wiring/smoke-detectors)
1. [Power](/security-alarm-system/wiring/power)

## Troubleshooting

1. [Viewing Debug Output from the Device](/security-alarm-system/troubleshooting/serial-debugging)

## Usage, Addons and Other Information

1. [DIY Shopping & Buying Guide](/security-alarm-system/buying-guide)
1. [Blue LED status indicator](/security-alarm-system/setup/device-modes)
