security-alarm-system/wiring/connecting-jumpers.md, before:

---
title: Connecting Jumper Wires to In-wall Wiring
layout: default
breadcrumb: Connecting Jumpers
comments: true
---

**Jumper Wires** make it easy to create tight connections between your in-wall wiring and the Konnected device. Most 
in-wall wiring is 22 AWG solid copper wire. This type of wire fits perfectly with the jumper wires 
included in the  [Konnected Alarm Panel DIY kit](https://store.konnected.io/products/wired-alarm-system-complete-kit) or
[commonly available online](/security-alarm-system/buying-guide).


![](/assets/images/20170703_140007.jpg){:class="img-callout"}

Use a wire stripper to strip about a centimeter of wire insulation from the end of the wire. If you don't have wire
strippers, you can use a pair of scissors or razor to gently score the wire insulation without cutting the copper core.
  Then use your fingernail to peel off the insulation, exposing the copper wire.
   
![](/assets/images/20170703_140032.jpg){:class="img-callout"}

Holding the copper wire tightly in your fingers, push it firmly into the female end of the jumper cable. Be careful to
not let the copper wire bend or break as you push it in. The wire should be snug in the jumper cable connector.

##### **Next Step:** [Wire Door and Window Sensors](/security-alarm-system/wiring/contact-sensors)

Commit message:

add content about stranded wire

security-alarm-system/wiring/connecting-jumpers.md, after:

---
title: Connecting Jumper Wires to In-wall Wiring
layout: default
breadcrumb: Connecting Jumpers
comments: true
---

**Jumper Wires** make it easy to create tight connections between your in-wall wiring and the Konnected device. Most 
in-wall wiring is 22 AWG solid copper wire. This type of wire fits perfectly with the jumper wires 
included in the  [Konnected Alarm Panel DIY kit](https://store.konnected.io/products/wired-alarm-system-complete-kit) or
[commonly available online](/security-alarm-system/buying-guide).


![](/assets/images/20170703_140007.jpg){:class="img-callout"}

Use a wire stripper to strip about a centimeter of wire insulation from the end of the wire. If you don't have wire
strippers, you can use a pair of scissors or razor to gently score the wire insulation without cutting the copper core.
  Then use your fingernail to peel off the insulation, exposing the copper wire.
   
![](/assets/images/20170703_140032.jpg){:class="img-callout"}

Holding the copper wire tightly in your fingers, push it firmly into the female end of the jumper cable. Be careful to
not let the copper wire bend or break as you push it in. The wire should be snug in the jumper cable connector.

## If You Have Stranded Wire

If your in-wall alarm wire is _stranded_ instead of _solid_, it won't be easy to connect them directly to the jumpers. 
Here are a few ways to deal with stranded wire:

### Crimp Connectors
<a class="img-inline" href="https://www.amazon.com/dp/B01L9J4C7W/ref=as_li_ss_il?pf_rd_m=ATVPDKIKX0DER&pf_rd_p=3182441022&pd_rd_wg=lOzMW&pf_rd_r=9QXBDZVC89WFCT384GAK&pf_rd_s=desktop-sx-top-slot&pf_rd_t=301&pd_rd_i=B01L9J4C7W&pd_rd_w=5gZ0G&pf_rd_i=b-connector&pd_rd_r=HPCE3H16ZX06B4BGVV50&ie=UTF8&qid=1504413859&sr=1&linkCode=li1&tag=konnected-io-20&linkId=d6c2c61475d7ed0d62106b7b64aaf024" target="_blank"><img border="0" src="//ws-na.amazon-adsystem.com/widgets/q?_encoding=UTF8&ASIN=B01L9J4C7W&Format=_SL110_&ID=AsinImage&MarketPlace=US&ServiceVersion=20070822&WS=1&tag=konnected-io-20" ></a><img src="https://ir-na.amazon-adsystem.com/e/ir?t=konnected-io-20&l=li1&o=1&a=B01L9J4C7W" width="1" height="1" border="0" alt="" style="border:none !important; margin:0px !important;" />Professional alarm installers use [b-connectors](https://www.amazon.com/dp/B01L9J4C7W/ref=as_li_ss_il?pf_rd_m=ATVPDKIKX0DER&pf_rd_p=3182441022&pd_rd_wg=lOzMW&pf_rd_r=9QXBDZVC89WFCT384GAK&pf_rd_s=desktop-sx-top-slot&pf_rd_t=301&pd_rd_i=B01L9J4C7W&pd_rd_w=5gZ0G&pf_rd_i=b-connector&pd_rd_r=HPCE3H16ZX06B4BGVV50&ie=UTF8&qid=1504413859&sr=1&linkCode=li1&tag=konnected-io-20&linkId=d6c2c61475d7ed0d62106b7b64aaf024)
to crimp alarm wires together. This is a cheap and easy solution to stranded wire. Simply rip off one end of the jumper
wire, and strip a little bit of the wire jacket to expose the copper inside. Push the exposed end with the alarm wire into
the b-connector and crimp together with a pliers.

### Breakout Board
<a class="img-inline" href="https://www.amazon.com/Electronics-Salon-Header-Breakout-Terminal-Connector/dp/B00SWN61I2/ref=as_li_ss_il?s=industrial&ie=UTF8&qid=1504414814&sr=1-1&keywords=Male+Header+Breakout+Board,+Terminal+Block&linkCode=li1&tag=konnected-io-20&linkId=482555c202e6eb7ae9d40a295ed9965f" target="_blank"><img border="0" src="//ws-na.amazon-adsystem.com/widgets/q?_encoding=UTF8&ASIN=B00SWN61I2&Format=_SL110_&ID=AsinImage&MarketPlace=US&ServiceVersion=20070822&WS=1&tag=konnected-io-20" ></a><img src="https://ir-na.amazon-adsystem.com/e/ir?t=konnected-io-20&l=li1&o=1&a=B00SWN61I2" width="1" height="1" border="0" alt="" style="border:none !important; margin:0px !important;" />
A [breakout board](https://www.amazon.com/Electronics-Salon-Header-Breakout-Terminal-Connector/dp/B00SWN61I2/ref=as_li_ss_tl?s=industrial&ie=UTF8&qid=1504414814&sr=1-1&keywords=Male+Header+Breakout+Board,+Terminal+Block&linkCode=ll1&tag=konnected-io-20&linkId=67768e6da6b3377a498cc9269f503b0d) like this one gives you a clean and organized approach. The breakout board
converts pins into screw terminals that work just fine with stranded wire. Here's a [larger breakout board](https://www.amazon.com/Electronics-Salon-Header-Breakout-Terminal-Connector/dp/B00SWPPENS/ref=as_li_ss_tl?s=industrial&ie=UTF8&qid=1504414814&sr=1-2&keywords=Male+Header+Breakout+Board,+Terminal+Block&linkCode=ll1&tag=konnected-io-20&linkId=12782e0b3e6379539f04eeb59b1cee1d)
for installs with more than 8 zones.


##### **Next Step:** [Wire Door and Window Sensors](/security-alarm-system/wiring/contact-sensors)
