security-alarm-system/wiring/smoke-detectors.md, before:

---
title: Smoke Detectors
layout: default
amazon_ads: true
amazon_assoc_asins: 
comments: true
---

# Smoke Detectors

Connecting smoke detectors requires a _relay_ compatible with your brand of smoke detector. Once you've wired your smoke
detector wires to the relay according to the relay instructions, connect the NC and C leads of the relay to the 
Konnected device [input pins](#input-pins) just like any other sensor.

### First Alert

<a class="img-product" href="https://www.amazon.com/BRK-Brands-RM4-Smart-Relay/dp/B0039PF21U/ref=as_li_ss_il?s=hi&ie=UTF8&qid=1500794989&sr=1-2&keywords=smoke+alarm+relay&linkCode=li1&tag=konnected-io-20&linkId=6e7db2fb42a6bb60154e7a5075ef2516" target="_blank"><img border="0" src="//ws-na.amazon-adsystem.com/widgets/q?_encoding=UTF8&ASIN=B0039PF21U&Format=_SL110_&ID=AsinImage&MarketPlace=US&ServiceVersion=20070822&WS=1&tag=konnected-io-20" ></a><img src="https://ir-na.amazon-adsystem.com/e/ir?t=konnected-io-20&l=li1&o=1&a=B0039PF21U" width="1" height="1" border="0" alt="" style="border:none !important; margin:0px !important;" />

[RM4 Smart Relay for First Alert](https://www.amazon.com/BRK-Brands-RM4-Smart-Relay/dp/B0039PF21U/ref=as_li_ss_tl?s=hi&ie=UTF8&qid=1500794989&sr=1-2&keywords=smoke+alarm+relay&linkCode=ll1&tag=konnected-io-20&linkId=aff5811a3e80cba5cdf3e4458f98763f)
<br style="clear:both;"/>


### Kidde

<a class="img-product" href="https://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B001AYERC2//ref=as_li_ss_il?ie=UTF8&linkCode=li1&tag=konnected-io-20&linkId=3d31a63fe15f0255e66f7d9499e388ea" target="_blank"><img border="0" src="//ws-na.amazon-adsystem.com/widgets/q?_encoding=UTF8&ASIN=B001AYERC2&Format=_SL110_&ID=AsinImage&MarketPlace=US&ServiceVersion=20070822&WS=1&tag=konnected-io-20" ></a><img src="https://ir-na.amazon-adsystem.com/e/ir?t=konnected-io-20&l=li1&o=1&a=B001AYERC2" width="1" height="1" border="0" alt="" style="border:none !important; margin:0px !important;" />

[Kidde - Interconnect Accessories Smoke Relay Module: 408-Sm120X](https://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B001AYERC2//ref=as_li_ss_tl?ie=UTF8&linkCode=ll1&tag=konnected-io-20&linkId=33fb8c431fc32b132df2c7327bf862d9)
<br style="clear:both;"/>

<a class="img-product" href="https://www.amazon.com/Kidde-CO120X-Relay-Module/dp/B000LDDVAW/ref=as_li_ss_il?_encoding=UTF8&pd_rd_i=B000LDDVAW&pd_rd_r=1ZTRZGRPXJJKGT6S9NJZ&pd_rd_w=yamRy&pd_rd_wg=zcE14&psc=1&refRID=1ZTRZGRPXJJKGT6S9NJZ&linkCode=li1&tag=konnected-io-20&linkId=6e030637a08e520513ef4ec3518df2fd" target="_blank"><img border="0" src="//ws-na.amazon-adsystem.com/widgets/q?_encoding=UTF8&ASIN=B000LDDVAW&Format=_SL110_&ID=AsinImage&MarketPlace=US&ServiceVersion=20070822&WS=1&tag=konnected-io-20" ></a><img src="https://ir-na.amazon-adsystem.com/e/ir?t=konnected-io-20&l=li1&o=1&a=B000LDDVAW" width="1" height="1" border="0" alt="" style="border:none !important; margin:0px !important;" />

[Kidde Relay Module](https://www.amazon.com/Kidde-CO120X-Relay-Module/dp/B000LDDVAW/ref=as_li_ss_tl?_encoding=UTF8&pd_rd_i=B000LDDVAW&pd_rd_r=1ZTRZGRPXJJKGT6S9NJZ&pd_rd_w=yamRy&pd_rd_wg=zcE14&psc=1&refRID=1ZTRZGRPXJJKGT6S9NJZ&linkCode=ll1&tag=konnected-io-20&linkId=8b87f79f0db144a31576f1878489f452)
<br style="clear:both;"/>

### USI Electric

<a class="img-product" href="https://www.amazon.com/Electric-USI-960-Relay-Module-Alarms/dp/B002EVORYS/ref=as_li_ss_il?s=hi&ie=UTF8&qid=1500795134&sr=1-1&keywords=smoke+alarm+relay&linkCode=li1&tag=konnected-io-20&linkId=de89d515aecb213af0d6c329c28ca078" target="_blank"><img border="0" src="//ws-na.amazon-adsystem.com/widgets/q?_encoding=UTF8&ASIN=B002EVORYS&Format=_SL110_&ID=AsinImage&MarketPlace=US&ServiceVersion=20070822&WS=1&tag=konnected-io-20" ></a><img src="https://ir-na.amazon-adsystem.com/e/ir?t=konnected-io-20&l=li1&o=1&a=B002EVORYS" width="1" height="1" border="0" alt="" style="border:none !important; margin:0px !important;" />

[USI Electric USI-960 Relay Module for Smoke and Fire Alarms](https://www.amazon.com/Electric-USI-960-Relay-Module-Alarms/dp/B002EVORYS/ref=as_li_ss_tl?s=hi&ie=UTF8&qid=1500795134&sr=1-1&keywords=smoke+alarm+relay&linkCode=ll1&tag=konnected-io-20&linkId=261ef421ed9ac33cc05fe9e00c6f0a3e)
<br style="clear:both;"/>

### Input Pins

The following input pins on the Konnected device can be used for smoke detectors:
* `D1`
* `D2`
* `D5`
* `D6`
* `D7`
* `RX`

##### **Next Step:** [Power](/security-alarm-system/wiring/power)

Commit message:

smoke and power doc updates

security-alarm-system/wiring/smoke-detectors.md, after:

---
title: Smoke Detectors
layout: default
amazon_ads: true
amazon_assoc_asins: 
comments: true
---

# Smoke Detectors

Many interconnected type _wired_ smoke detectors (the kind when one alarms they all alarm) are compatible with Konnected
if you have the right type of wiring and relay.

## 2-Wire Smoke Detectors

Many Honeywell / Ademco alarm systems particularly the popular VISTA-20P use 2-wire smoke alarms that are powered by 
supervised 12V power from the alarm panel. Unfortunately these will **NOT** work with Konnected. Popular smoke detectors
models that **DO NOT** work with Konnected are _System Sensor 2W-B, 2WT-B, COSMO-2W_ and _Interlogix 521B, 528B_.

## 4-Wire Smoke Detectors

Most 4-Wire Smoke Detectors can work with Konnected if your wiring is accessible and you have a relay compatible with
your smoke detector. Many smoke detectors operate on household AC power, so a relay is necessary to signal low-voltage
devices like alarm systems and your Konnected board. If your smoke detectors were previously wired to your alarm panel, 
there's probably a relay already installed. If not, there are links below to relays for many popular models. 

Once you've identified the smoke detector signal wires, connect the two leads of the relay to the Konnected device 
[input pins](#input-pins) just like any other sensor. If your relay has both normally closed (NC) and normally open (NO)
wires, uses the NC one.

### First Alert

<a class="img-product" href="https://www.amazon.com/BRK-Brands-RM4-Smart-Relay/dp/B0039PF21U/ref=as_li_ss_il?s=hi&ie=UTF8&qid=1500794989&sr=1-2&keywords=smoke+alarm+relay&linkCode=li1&tag=konnected-io-20&linkId=6e7db2fb42a6bb60154e7a5075ef2516" target="_blank"><img border="0" src="//ws-na.amazon-adsystem.com/widgets/q?_encoding=UTF8&ASIN=B0039PF21U&Format=_SL110_&ID=AsinImage&MarketPlace=US&ServiceVersion=20070822&WS=1&tag=konnected-io-20" ></a><img src="https://ir-na.amazon-adsystem.com/e/ir?t=konnected-io-20&l=li1&o=1&a=B0039PF21U" width="1" height="1" border="0" alt="" style="border:none !important; margin:0px !important;" />

[RM4 Smart Relay for First Alert](https://www.amazon.com/BRK-Brands-RM4-Smart-Relay/dp/B0039PF21U/ref=as_li_ss_tl?s=hi&ie=UTF8&qid=1500794989&sr=1-2&keywords=smoke+alarm+relay&linkCode=ll1&tag=konnected-io-20&linkId=aff5811a3e80cba5cdf3e4458f98763f)
<br style="clear:both;"/>


### Kidde

<a class="img-product" href="https://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B001AYERC2//ref=as_li_ss_il?ie=UTF8&linkCode=li1&tag=konnected-io-20&linkId=3d31a63fe15f0255e66f7d9499e388ea" target="_blank"><img border="0" src="//ws-na.amazon-adsystem.com/widgets/q?_encoding=UTF8&ASIN=B001AYERC2&Format=_SL110_&ID=AsinImage&MarketPlace=US&ServiceVersion=20070822&WS=1&tag=konnected-io-20" ></a><img src="https://ir-na.amazon-adsystem.com/e/ir?t=konnected-io-20&l=li1&o=1&a=B001AYERC2" width="1" height="1" border="0" alt="" style="border:none !important; margin:0px !important;" />

[Kidde - Interconnect Accessories Smoke Relay Module: 408-Sm120X](https://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B001AYERC2//ref=as_li_ss_tl?ie=UTF8&linkCode=ll1&tag=konnected-io-20&linkId=33fb8c431fc32b132df2c7327bf862d9)
<br style="clear:both;"/>

<a class="img-product" href="https://www.amazon.com/Kidde-CO120X-Relay-Module/dp/B000LDDVAW/ref=as_li_ss_il?_encoding=UTF8&pd_rd_i=B000LDDVAW&pd_rd_r=1ZTRZGRPXJJKGT6S9NJZ&pd_rd_w=yamRy&pd_rd_wg=zcE14&psc=1&refRID=1ZTRZGRPXJJKGT6S9NJZ&linkCode=li1&tag=konnected-io-20&linkId=6e030637a08e520513ef4ec3518df2fd" target="_blank"><img border="0" src="//ws-na.amazon-adsystem.com/widgets/q?_encoding=UTF8&ASIN=B000LDDVAW&Format=_SL110_&ID=AsinImage&MarketPlace=US&ServiceVersion=20070822&WS=1&tag=konnected-io-20" ></a><img src="https://ir-na.amazon-adsystem.com/e/ir?t=konnected-io-20&l=li1&o=1&a=B000LDDVAW" width="1" height="1" border="0" alt="" style="border:none !important; margin:0px !important;" />

[Kidde Relay Module](https://www.amazon.com/Kidde-CO120X-Relay-Module/dp/B000LDDVAW/ref=as_li_ss_tl?_encoding=UTF8&pd_rd_i=B000LDDVAW&pd_rd_r=1ZTRZGRPXJJKGT6S9NJZ&pd_rd_w=yamRy&pd_rd_wg=zcE14&psc=1&refRID=1ZTRZGRPXJJKGT6S9NJZ&linkCode=ll1&tag=konnected-io-20&linkId=8b87f79f0db144a31576f1878489f452)
<br style="clear:both;"/>

### USI Electric

<a class="img-product" href="https://www.amazon.com/Electric-USI-960-Relay-Module-Alarms/dp/B002EVORYS/ref=as_li_ss_il?s=hi&ie=UTF8&qid=1500795134&sr=1-1&keywords=smoke+alarm+relay&linkCode=li1&tag=konnected-io-20&linkId=de89d515aecb213af0d6c329c28ca078" target="_blank"><img border="0" src="//ws-na.amazon-adsystem.com/widgets/q?_encoding=UTF8&ASIN=B002EVORYS&Format=_SL110_&ID=AsinImage&MarketPlace=US&ServiceVersion=20070822&WS=1&tag=konnected-io-20" ></a><img src="https://ir-na.amazon-adsystem.com/e/ir?t=konnected-io-20&l=li1&o=1&a=B002EVORYS" width="1" height="1" border="0" alt="" style="border:none !important; margin:0px !important;" />

[USI Electric USI-960 Relay Module for Smoke and Fire Alarms](https://www.amazon.com/Electric-USI-960-Relay-Module-Alarms/dp/B002EVORYS/ref=as_li_ss_tl?s=hi&ie=UTF8&qid=1500795134&sr=1-1&keywords=smoke+alarm+relay&linkCode=ll1&tag=konnected-io-20&linkId=261ef421ed9ac33cc05fe9e00c6f0a3e)
<br style="clear:both;"/>

### Input Pins

The following input pins on the Konnected device can be used for smoke detectors:
* `D1`
* `D2`
* `D5`
* `D6`
* `D7`
* `RX`

##### **Next Step:** [Power](/security-alarm-system/wiring/power)
